---
title: Vulnhub Momentum 1 Writeup
date: 2022-05-24 12:00:00 -0700
categories: [ctf]
tags: [hacking,writeup,web,linux] # TAG names should always be lowercase
---

# Momentum 1
---

First i started off with a network scan to obtain the IP and services of the box

```bash
nmap $IP/24
nmap -sC -sV -oN nmap/initial $IP
```

once done i see that their is an **ssh** port and an **http** port open on the box

seeing that it is a webserver i decided to start my enumeration to see if their are any extra pages i might miss.

```bash
gobuster dir -u http://$IP/ -w ~/path/to/wordlist.txt
```

looking through the output i see nothing useful so i go digging in the webpage with inspect element.
while looking through the files and what happens when reloaded i look at the source code of the site. along with the js files and css.

in the js file i notice this 

```javascript
function viewDetails(str) {

  window.location.href = "opus-details.php?id="+str;
}

/*
var CryptoJS = require("crypto-js");
var decrypted = CryptoJS.AES.decrypt(encrypted, "SecretPassphraseMomentum");
console.log(decrypted.toString(CryptoJS.enc.Utf8));
*/
```

having just recently started looking at Javascript i see that their is another webpage that my enumeration couldnt find.
i emediatly take the bit of url their and past it into the url of the site.
in doing so i see that whatever i put down in the **id=** field will be displayed on the webpage. 
again having just recently started messing with **XSS** i go and try to exicute an alert and it worked.( pretty simple )

i tried multiple different things such as: a remote shell (didnt work), LFI (didnt work), even some DB scripts, and nothing. 
then while doing some research i saw that most people when given a cookie try stuff with that.
so i went and looked at the cookie in inspect-element -> application -> cookie or by causing the page to execute 

```HTML
<script> alert(document.cookie)</script>
```

it looked to be encrypted and with the info the js file gave me i figured it was using crypto-js with AES to encrypt it. so i looked online for a decoder and found one [here](https://stackblitz.com/edit/cryptojs-aes-encrypt-decrypt?file=index.js) that was able to decrypt it for me.
it needed the password in order to decrypt which i saw in the js file that it was 
**" SecretPassphraseMomentum "**
which in turn gave me this as the text 
**" auxerre-alienum## "** 

now with this i figured with the ssh port open it might be a password but what would i use as the username and password?
given the decrypted passphrase i figured it had to be some permutation of it so i made a [[passphrase.txt|wordlist]] to bruteforce it with hydra.

```bash
hydra -L wordlist.txt -P wordlist.txt <IP of target> ssh
```

and bam i got the username and password

```
[22][ssh] host: <ip>   login: auxerre   password: auxerre-alienum##
```

so i ssh'd in with the credentials

```bash
ssh auxerre@<ip>
auxerree@<ip> password: auxerre-alienum##
```

once in i see a **user.txt** i cat it out and 

```
[ Momentum - User Owned ]
---------------------------------------
flag : 84157165c30ad34d18945b647ec7f647
---------------------------------------
```

First flag!!!

now to get root.

i imported [[linpeas.sh|linpeas]] to autoenumerate and found that their was an open port on 6379 listening on localhost.
after a little research i see that it is a [[6379-pentesting-redis|redis]] instance and that it potentialy could be used as a privesc vector.
looking at the documentation on what commands to do to log in i found out i can just use 

```bash
redis-cli
```

and then similar to a ftp connection i can find info in the instance. 
using the command

```redis
keys *
```

i see that their is a key called rootpass
and so i 

```redis
get rootpass
```

and i recieved this string
**m0mentum-al1enum##**

i then logged in as root with the password

```bash
su root 
Password: m0mentum-al1enum##
```

once logged in i cat root.txt in /root and get

```
[ Momentum - Rooted ]
---------------------------------------
Flag : 658ff660fdac0b079ea78238e5996e40
---------------------------------------
by alienum with <3
```

i now have the final flag!!
