---
title: My Homelab
date: 2022-08-06 20:46:13 -0700
categories: [homelab,hardware]
tags: [servers,desktop,hosting] # TAG names should always be lowercase
---

# My Homelab
---

## Reason

The reason I decided that I needed to have a homelab is so I can get hands on with many different technologies and put my skills to the test. 



## How I started

Not having a lot of money for an actual server to work with I took bits and pieces from old desktop parts I had lying around, and parts given to me by friends that had upgraded their gaming PC's. all together I was able to get a decent starting system together.



### Specs

**CPU**
- Intel Quad Core i5-6500 @ 3.2 GHz

**RAM**
- 2x DDR4 Corsair vengeance (2 x 8GB)
- 1x DDR4 Ballistics (1 x 8GB)
- 1x DDR4 Unnamed Chinese knockoff ram (1 x 8GB)
- 32GB Total

**Storage**
- 2TB crucial ssd
- 1TB WD blue x 2
- 512GB WD M.2 SSD
- 128GB Kingston M.2 SSD

**Graphics Card**
- MSI Radeon R9 390x

**Mother Board**
- gigabyte ( cant remember the name )



## What will be done

This is now the 3rd rendition of this lab, and I have narrowed it down to the few essentials I want added.

To start I would like to have a NAS, and a media server. While looking at different solutions I found 2 options I wanted to try out. 
For the NAS I wanted to try out [TrueNAS](https://www.truenas.com/). Seeing all the videos and reviews it seemed like a fantastic option. 
For the Media Server I wanted to use [Plex](https://www.plex.tv/) since I have used it in the past, and it has a great user interface.

Now having only 1 PC I needed a way to have VMs other than [Virtualbox](https://www.virtualbox.org/) and able to use a minimal amount of the resources available. I looked at different options such as ESXI, Windows Hyper V, and such, but they all used to much of my resources or "cost me money!" (As Mr. Crabs would say). With this I settled on [Proxmox](https://www.proxmox.com/en/). It ticked all my boxes, and came recomended by alot of other homelabers.



## Now for the Juice

The steps I took consisted of the following:
- Install Proxmox
- Install TrueNAS
- Install Plex

Seams simple. Lets Begin.

I started by getting the Proxmox iso and burning it to a USB 
```bash
dd if=Proxmox.iso of=/dev/sda bs=1M status=progress
```
I then installed proxmox on to the PC by going into the bios and setting the boot order to have it boot from the USB drive first.
Once booted I went through the instilation wizard and made the 128GB SSD the boot drive.

After install I went to the web portal to mangage it at ***192.168.0.181:8006*** for me.
Apon loging in I added the other drives to the system under the names:
- 2TB_SSD
- 1TB_WD
- 1TB_WD_USB
- 512GB_NVME

Now I needed to upload the ISOs I wanted to install.
At first I thought I would need to install plex in a docker container however I found out that you can install and host plex from TrueNAS! So I created a TrueNAS VM on the 512GB giving it:
- 2 cpu cores
- 16gb ram (I know its overkill but I want to eventualy increase storage
- and added all the TB drives as storage for it 

Once booted I created 2 seprate ZFS pools.
- media ( used for my videos and movies )
and
- main ( used for my genaric files and other stuff )

I then added the extra template repo to TrueNAS to enable the Plex template, and installed it.

I connected the media drive to the plex server loaded with all my movies and shows, formated to be shown. 

Now when I browse to the IP of the Plex machine I can see all my movies

**Still a work in progress. Gonna add detailed steps and pics soon!

